README.md, before:

# 90 Days To Master Data Structures and Algorithms Using [Java🔥] 🚀

> 👉 I am currently in my 4th semester of MCA course. I need to study for that too. Also, need to clear backlog of 1 subject of semester 3rd. Since, I don't have any **Internships** I need to showcase a **Major Project** in practical exams. I am also doing **MERN** alongside.

---

## Social Profiles👋

👉 **[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/devprashant99/)** 👈 <br/>
👉 **[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/u/dev_prashant/)** 👈

---

**`Start Day:`** **01-04-2025** <br/>
**`End Date:`** **30-06-2025**

---

## Foundation Journey😁

Today is `18-03-2025` and untill `31-03-2025` I will be covering all the basic concept of _Data Structures and Algorithms_ so that I can start my actual journey faster. Within these `14` days I will be touching evry DSA topics along with `Collections and Generics` and `Object Oriented Programming` so that my primary focus remains on DSA.

> 👉 First of all my foundational coding skills are good and from past few days I have been exploring Data Structures and Algorithms. I know basics of **Recursion**, **Binary Search**, **Arrays**, **Strings**, **OOPS**, **Time and Space Complexity**, etc. In short, many of the concepts are known to me so my progress may seem faster.

---

### Day 1 [18-03-2025]

According to the `AlgoPrep` playlist, I directly started with `Arrays` and solved the questions in **Video 1** and they were very basic. The **Video 2** also consisted of few problems that taught me handful of concepts.

---

**`Sources:`**

- **`Playlist For My Foundation Journey:`** 👉 **[AlgoPrep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XsIPFtmTWdM&list=PLmM0bg5v6gKFMhJ9vn2MwxVm2TUNU42VU)** 👈

- **`Questions:`** 👉 **[CollegeWallah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJ733wzbNoA&list=PLxgZQoSe9cg00xyG5gzb5BMkOClkch7Gr)** 👈

- **`Collections and Generics:`** 👉 **[Engineering Digest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=92k5uokmW9o&t=4248s)** 👈

## Main Journey😎

**`DO's:`**<br/><br/>
✅ Solve **Easy and Medium** questions on `LeetCode`.<br/>
✅ Follow `Famous Sheets` by YouTubers.<br/>
✅ Sheets contains most important problems with high frequency.<br/>
✅ Daily Solve `10 LeetCode` problems and the number may vary.<br/>
✅ Share your progress on `Social Profile`.<br/>
✅ Read `interview blogs` in free time to get idea about frequently asked questions.<br/>
✅ Explore `Discussion Section` on LeetCode to get more crisp idea about the problem.<br/><br/>

**`DONT's:`** <br/><br/>
❌ Solve `maxmimum problems` from single topic.<br/>
❌ Learn `all tips and tricks` and algorithms.<br/>
❌ Be `inconsistent`.<br/><br/>

**`Before Solving a Complex Problem:`** <br/><br/>
✔️ Read and `Understand the Question` Properly.<br/>
✔️ Focus on `Available Constraint` Related to The Question.<br/>
✔️ Figure Out `Brute Force` Approach.<br/>
✔️ Optimize it For a `Better` Approach if Any Available.<br/>
✔️ Solve Using `Optimal` Approach.<br/>

---

Commit message:

practise questions from college wallah

README.md, after:

# 90 Days To Master Data Structures and Algorithms Using [Java🔥] 🚀

> 👉 I am currently in my 4th semester of MCA course. I need to study for that too. Also, need to clear backlog of 1 subject of semester 3rd. Since, I don't have any **Internships** I need to showcase a **Major Project** in practical exams. I am also doing **MERN** alongside.

---

## Social Profiles👋

👉 **[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/devprashant99/)** 👈 <br/>
👉 **[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/u/dev_prashant/)** 👈

---

**`Start Day:`** **01-04-2025** <br/>
**`End Date:`** **30-06-2025**

---

## Foundation Journey😁

Today is `18-03-2025` and untill `31-03-2025` I will be covering all the basic concept of _Data Structures and Algorithms_ so that I can start my actual journey faster. Within these `14` days I will be touching evry DSA topics along with `Collections and Generics` and `Object Oriented Programming` so that my primary focus remains on DSA.

> 👉 First of all my foundational coding skills are good and from past few days I have been exploring Data Structures and Algorithms. I know basics of **Recursion**, **Binary Search**, **Arrays**, **Strings**, **OOPS**, **Time and Space Complexity**, etc. In short, many of the concepts are known to me so my progress may seem faster.

---

### Day 1 [18-03-2025]

According to the `AlgoPrep` playlist, I directly started with `Arrays` and solved the questions in **Video 1** and they were very basic. The **Video 2** also consisted of few problems that taught me handful of concepts. [2Hrs]

Next, it was time to `Practise` coding questions from `College Wallah`. The **First 2 Videos** were just about basic concepts of array and how to play around with it. Standard problems were covered from **Video 3** onwards.

From **Video 4** onwards focus was given towards *Space and Time Complexity* along also how to handle *Edge Cases* which may lead to unexpected error. It also focused on `How to Proceed a Problem` i.e. *Brute Force -> Better -> Optimal -> Complexity*. Only 2 questions were covered *Rotate Array By K Places* and *Check Whether Number is Present in Array or Not For Q Queries*. The concept learnt in the first question was `Two Pointers Approach` and in second was `Hashing` or you can say **Lookup Array Elements in O(1) Time**.

The **Video 5** was completely dedicate to `Two Pointers Approach` problem and also I got to learn a handful of new concepts. It also discussed about the different approach of proceeding the same problem.

---

**`Sources:`**

- **`Playlist For My Foundation Journey:`** 👉 **[AlgoPrep](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XsIPFtmTWdM&list=PLmM0bg5v6gKFMhJ9vn2MwxVm2TUNU42VU)** 👈

- **`Questions:`** 👉 **[CollegeWallah](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RJ733wzbNoA&list=PLxgZQoSe9cg00xyG5gzb5BMkOClkch7Gr)** 👈

- **`Collections and Generics:`** 👉 **[Engineering Digest](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=92k5uokmW9o&t=4248s)** 👈

## Main Journey😎

**`DO's:`**<br/><br/>
✅ Solve **Easy and Medium** questions on `LeetCode`.<br/>
✅ Follow `Famous Sheets` by YouTubers.<br/>
✅ Sheets contains most important problems with high frequency.<br/>
✅ Daily Solve `10 LeetCode` problems and the number may vary.<br/>
✅ Share your progress on `Social Profile`.<br/>
✅ Read `interview blogs` in free time to get idea about frequently asked questions.<br/>
✅ Explore `Discussion Section` on LeetCode to get more crisp idea about the problem.<br/><br/>

**`DONT's:`** <br/><br/>
❌ Solve `maxmimum problems` from single topic.<br/>
❌ Learn `all tips and tricks` and algorithms.<br/>
❌ Be `inconsistent`.<br/><br/>

**`Before Solving a Complex Problem:`** <br/><br/>
✔️ Read and `Understand the Question` Properly.<br/>
✔️ Focus on `Available Constraint` Related to The Question.<br/>
✔️ Figure Out `Brute Force` Approach.<br/>
✔️ Optimize it For a `Better` Approach if Any Available.<br/>
✔️ Solve Using `Optimal` Approach.<br/>

---
